# IoT-based-predictive-maintenance-system-IPMS
Abstract
An IoT based predictive maintenance system (IPMS) that predicts the timing requirements for maintenance, detects problems in the facilities provided by the government. The system would provide quick and simple solutions based on the type of maintenance required to people in the surrounding environment that require these facilities to be functional and operational. Meanwhile, the system informs the nearest authorities to provide the proper and necessary solution for the issue at hand. The system smoothens this process by deciding which areas need immediate maintenance requirement and enable a priority-based method of allocating human resources. An estimated amount of time to be taken to perform said maintenance tasks communicated to people living in the nearby residences via SMS.
There is a lot of maintenance needed in the streets of a municipality. It can be maintenance needed for electricity or for water or sewage lines. A problem seen in daily life is the enormous time taken by the existing system to realize and fix problems before it’s unbearable. Also, maintenance is done regularly in the current system either during period schedule or after complaints received. The IPMS system follows an advanced analytical process to predict and prioritize maintenance issues for faster resolution time.  It eliminates periodic checks where not needed. The system provides a chart to the maintenance team to follow and bring in more productivity to the system.

